---

title: "4L. Generics In Java- 1"
---

## Update Autograder

First, please update your autograder by running:

```bash
umm update
```

## Opening Project in IDE

**Project files:** [4L_java_generics_1-TEMPLATE.zip](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/vb00died8l1g96qjaxwc5/4L_java_generics_1-TEMPLATE.zip?rlkey=n7ofqzvu9xtmwi8ikvhojsojy&st=abznypnv&dl=0)

1. Unzip the files to preferably an `ITSC 2214` folder for this class. You must have created this folder before for previous labs.
2. Open Visual Studio Code.
3. Go to `File > Open Folder`. Choose the folder where you extracted the files.

## Checking Grade

You can check your grade without hitting check answer by following these steps:

### Using Terminal

1. Open a terminal. To open a terminal in Visual Studio Code on different operating systems:
    - **Windows:** Press `Ctrl + `` or`Ctrl + Shift + ` to open the integrated terminal.

    - **Mac:** Press `Cmd + `` or`Cmd + Shift + ` to open the integrated terminal.
2. Run the command:

    ```bash
    umm grade ./script.rhai
    ```

## Project Overview

Here are the files in your project for the GenerivsPractice package:

```
.
├── src/
│   └── GenericsPractice/
│       └── Pair.java
└── test/
    └── GenericsPractice/
        └── PairTest.java
```

After you read the following, check this:

- This `Pair` class stores two elements of the same generic type.
- Implement the `min` method which returns the smaller of the two elements. These elements must be instances of the `Comparable` interface.

## Rubric

- Project must compile, otherwise no grade.
- Complete JavaDoc for `GenericsPractice.Pair` (5 points)
- All tests passing for `GenericsPractice.PairTest` (20 points)

## Checking Autograder Feedback

1. Open a terminal.
2. Run the command: `umm grade ./script.rhai`

OR

1. Open the command palette with `Ctrl + Shift + P` on Windows and `Cmd + Shift + P` on Mac.
2. Type "run task" and select "Tasks: Run Task". (or "Tasks: Rerun Last Task" in the future).
3. Select the "Grade Assignment" task. Use the other ones as needed but avoid the "Update" task unless told to do so.
4. Select "script.rhai" and press Enter.

You may not have tasks correctly configured for the first few labs.

## Submission

1. You can copy and run the `umm create-submission` command in the terminal, and that should create a zip file with a name similar to `submission-2024-01-24-15-04-50.zip`.

    ```bash
    umm create-submission
    ```

2. Submit the `submission-2024-... .zip` file to Gradescope. The submission zip file will appear in the file explorer tab of VS Code. You can right click on this file and click on reveal in explorer (windows) or reveal in finder (mac) in order to find this file. then, you can drag and drop this to gradescope for submission.
