---
title: "5L. Generics In Java- 2"
---

## Update Autograder

First, please update your autograder by running:

```bash
umm update
```

## Opening Project in IDE

**Project files:** [5L_java_generics_2-TEMPLATE.zip](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fi/l12m1jgsuucjbmrz5hbfc/5L_java_generics_2-TEMPLATE.zip?rlkey=uqg0jr6jeoabzl2hjkl1vzzri&st=95jzs59s&dl=1)

1. Unzip the files to preferably an `ITSC 2214` folder for this class.
2. Open Visual Studio Code.
3. Go to `File > Open Folder`. Choose the folder where you extracted the files.

## Checking Grade

You can check your grade without hitting check answer by following these steps:

## Using Terminal

1. Open a terminal. To open a terminal in Visual Studio Code on different operating systems:
    - **Windows:** Press ``Ctrl + ` `` or `` Ctrl + Shift + ` `` to open the integrated terminal.

    - **Mac:** Press `` Cmd + ` `` or `` Cmd + Shift + ` `` to open the integrated terminal.
2. Run the command:

    ```bash
    umm grade ./script.rhai
    ```

## Project Overview

```
.
├── src/
│   └── GenericsPractice/
│       └── Matrix.java
└── test/
    └── GenericsPractice/
        └── MatrixTest.java
```

## Instructions

Your task is to complete the implementation of a generic `Matrix` class. Currently, the `Matrix` class is empty. A matrix is a two-dimensional arrangement of elements. You access elements with a row and column index. For example:

```java
Matrix<String> tttBoard = new Matrix<String>(3, 3);
tttBoard.put(0, 0, "x");
if (tttBoard.get(1, 2).equals("o")) . . .
```

Please implement `put` and `get` methods based on the above usage description. Here, the first argument is the row index and the second is the column index.

Since we are not allowed to use generic arrays, we use an ArrayList of ArrayLists instead (an ArrayList that contains another ArrayList inside of it).

First, sketch in a notebook how you envision the rows and columns of a matrix being stored inside this ArrayList of ArrayLists. This ArrayList should be called `elements`. There should also be two integer members of this class - `rows` and `columns` - that store the size of the matrix.

Complete the implementations of the class. Be sure to implement getters and setters. This is what the constructor should look like:

```java
public Matrix(int rows, int columns) {
    this.rows = rows;
    this.columns = columns;
    elements = new ArrayList<ArrayList<T>>();
    for (int i = 0; i < rows; i++) {
        ArrayList<T> row = new ArrayList<T>();
        for (int j = 0; j < columns; j++)
            row.add(null);

        elements.add(row);
    }
}
```

This constructor implementation also tells you what the fields of the `Matrix` class should be.

## Rubric

- Project must compile, otherwise no grade.
- Complete JavaDoc for `GenericsPractice.Matrix` (5 points)
- All tests passing for `GenericsPractice.MatrixTest` (20 points)

## Submitting as a Pair

Please make sure you enter the emails of your team member when you submit on Gradescope. Please do not make two separate submissions or you will be flagged for plagiarism. Both students should get an email notification once a successful submission is made to Gradescope.

## Submission

1. You can copy and run the `umm create-submission` command in the terminal, and that should create a zip file with a name similar to `submission-2024-01-24-15-04-50.zip`.

    ```bash
    umm create-submission
    ```

2. Submit the `submission-2024-... .zip` file to Gradescope. The submission zip file will appear in the file explorer tab of VS Code. You can right click on this file and click on reveal in explorer (windows) or reveal in finder (mac) in order to find this file. then, you can drag and drop this to gradescope for submission.
